# SAMPLE COLLECTION INSTRUCTIONS
## PUBLIC DRINKING WATER for COLIFORM BACTERIA ANALYSIS

This sample kit and collection method is for public drinking water regulatory compliance and special samples. Only samples collected in bottles supplied by the Missouri State Public Health Laboratory (MSPHL) and collected in accordance with these instructions will be accepted for testing. PLEASE READ THESE INSTRUCTIONS COMPLETELY BEFORE COLLECTING SAMPLES.

### Sample Containers:
Sample bottles from the MSPHL contain a chlorine neutralizer that is present in powder or liquid form. The bottles are sterile and ready for use when shipped. **Do not rinse the contents from the container and keep the bottle closed until it is to be filled.**

---

### Shrink Wrap Seal:
Remove the seal by pulling down on the red strip and peeling shrink wrap from both the cap and bottle. Discard all shrink wrap. Do not attempt to reseal lid with shrink wrap still attached.

### Two Fill Lines:

**Fill the bottle until the water sample level is BETWEEN THE TWO LINES.** Place the bottle on a level surface to check the sample level.

**Samples below the 100 mL (lower) line WILL NOT BE TESTED due to insufficient sample volume. Samples above the 120 mL (upper) line WILL NOT BE TESTED due to overfilled bottle.** Technical protocol and EPA requirements dictate that bottles must have sufficient air space to add testing reagents and to mix the sample properly.

If the bottle is overfilled past the 120 mL line, pour off water until the sample volume is between the two lines before shipping to MSPHL. MSPHL **WILL NOT** adjust sample volume once the sample is received at the lab.

### No Paper Label:
There is no longer a label to record sample information on the bottle. DO NOT WRITE ON THE BOTTLE. Please complete a sample information form for each sample submitted for testing. DATE AND TIME OF SAMPLE COLLECTION and the BOTTLE NUMBER (from sticker on bottle) ARE REQUIRED. A form for each bottle is included in this sample kit.

---

### For More Information, please contact:
Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services
State Public Health Laboratory
Environmental Bacteriology Unit
101 North Chestnut St., P.O. Box 570
Jefferson City, MO 65102
Phone: 573-751-3334
FAX: 573-522-4032
Email: labweb1@health.mo.gov
Website: [www.health.mo.gov/Lab](http://www.health.mo.gov/Lab)

---

*Page 1 of 4*  
*LAB 34 Public Water (R10-2015)*